MUSTAFA KURTUIDU: Hello there.
My name is Mustafa, a
UX designer at Google,
and in this talk, I'm going to
be covering designing for speed
and hacking user perception.
So I'll go through some research
and some design examples.
But before I get into that, I'd
like to talk through a story
which will summarize pretty
much most of the talk,
and that's the story
of the slow elevator.
So people often complain
to building managers
that the elevator is
running really slow.
So this is a big pain point.
One potential solution is
to make the elevator faster.
So you can install a new motor.
You can upgrade the motor.
You can rip out the elevator,
try different algorithms.
The problem with this, though--
it's quite an expensive thing
to do.
And for legacy systems,
this is really difficult.
So this parable kind
of describes the web.
When new technologies or
new techniques come out,
it's really difficult
to rip out old code
and replace it with new code.
So what can we actually
do in these situations?
Well, if we look at the
problem and the pain point--
the elevator is slow--
really, from the
user point of view,
it's not so much the
elevator being slow,
but it's actually the
waiting being quite annoying.
So if you reframe
the problem, we say,
OK, waiting is annoying.
So what can we do to actually
make the waiting feel shorter?
So we say, OK, building
managers will put up mirrors,
they'll install
a hand sanitizer,
and perhaps they'll play music.
And this distraction
technique will actually
make the whole experience
feel much faster.
So reframing the
problem can actually
help us think about how we
can hack things perceptively
for the users.
Because speed is
broken down into two
things, real and perceived.
So looking at some of
the technical speed data,
we see the "Financial Times."
So the "Financial Times" have
this interesting algorithm
called the tipping point.
If the user comes to
the website five times
a month to read five
articles a month,
they're more likely to
subscribe to their site.
And if they reach
nine articles a month,
then they're definitely
more likely to subscribe.
So they have this
tipping point, the moment
the user starts accessing
this five times a month.
So they'll start targeting
and engaging with that user.
But what they found was
by making the website one
second faster, they
increased engagement
for everybody coming
to the website.
So making the experience faster,
from a technical point of view,
is really critical.
But also, the opposite is true.
For every two seconds
a site takes to load,
bounce rates go up by 50%.
So it's really critical to make
your sites technically fast.
And from a UX
point of view, when
you ask users, what's the most
important thing on a page,
they always talk about speed.
As a matter of fact,
the top four things
here are all about
speed and perception,
if you think about them.
The bottom one, how
attractive a site looks,
is quite depressing
for me as a designer.
But on the mobile web, speed
is really, really critical.
But what can we
do as a quick win?
So we have an app called Squoosh
that we released last year.
This optimizes
images on the web.
Why is that important?
Because average page
content is images,
and images are really heavy.
So this is a PWA.
You can drag and drop
images and start reducing
the size of the images.
And we demonstrated this
at Chrome Dev Summit 2019
and showed, by taking
the IO's home page image,
we reduced it by 83%.
So we can all collectively
start improving the experiences
on the web just by making
images much smaller.
You can download the
code here and also grab
any of the components that are
useful, such as Pinch to Zoom.
And so please do check that out.
But speed on the mobile
web is important,
but the perception of
speed is just as important,
because what we find is
at least a third of users
still feel experiences
that are technically fast
actually feel really slow.
So what can we do to
actually improve that?
Well, perception
and recognizable UI.
Making navigation
front of center
is one small thing
that you can do,
because if a button is
recognized straight away,
the experiences
feel faster, based
on the research that we've seen.
So another example
is making buttons
recognizable as buttons.
So the blue button here
looks like a button.
It's more likely
to be engaged with,
as opposed to the text
button, it may be a button,
it may not be a button.
So if a person is
looking around a page
to see what they're
supposed to tap or click on,
the experience feels slower.
So make your navigation
items recognizable.
Also, give feedback to the user.
So the typical life of a button
is, a user will see a button,
they'll tap on a
button, engage with it.
They get enraged, because they
don't know what's happening.
And then they may
tap on it again,
because maybe they didn't tap
on it correctly the first time.
So what can we do to stop this?
Well, just giving back
feedback mechanisms
like the ripple that we
have in Material Design
can help, because on
touchscreen devices,
you won't have a hover.
So just giving
reassurances to the user
is a small thing to actually
change the perceptive speed
of an actual experience.
Progression is really
key here as well,
giving users some indication how
long something takes to load.
One interesting thing
in research that we find
is ripples that animate
towards the left
feel faster than other
forms of progression.
So if you can see
in this animation,
they're all the same, but
the one third from bottom
feels faster.
In YouTube, what we do is
we will stagger the progress
bar across the top just
a little bit because,
it gives this
anticipation and hanging,
so it feels like
the site is loading.
Again, this is a
small perceptive thing
that hacks the perception that
the experience is actually
in progress.
One other thing that you can
do is skeleton screens, which
are placeholders for content.
So one thing that
you don't want to do,
in the scale of good to
bad, is a blank screen.
You want to make sure
you show something.
The next thing along
is an actual spinner.
Spinners are better
than showing nothing
going into an experience,
but they still
don't give any clear
indication of what
and when something
is actually coming.
A replacement of that would
be the skeleton screen.
Now, when you ask users
about skeleton screens,
generally speaking, they'll
say gray boxes makes
the experience feel broken.
And there's this mass
reveal, which isn't great,
because conceptually, it's
the same as the spinner.
What we really
will need to do is
have metadata giving an
indication to the user
as to what is coming
above the skeletons.
The moment we have
content, we load it.
And perhaps images we'll frost
or show a pixelated version
first, and then load the
actual full-quality image.
So you want to
show at every step
some form of progression,
so the user is
reassured that something
is definitely coming.
Now, again, this is contextual
to your own experiences.
So in YouTube, what we do is,
we'll load the video first,
as opposed to the
rest of the content,
even though it's the
heaviest thing on the page,
because as part
of the experience,
the video is the
most important thing.
So again, you have to target
which content pieces are
critical in your experience
and load them first,
because the transitions
that we use,
we want to give the
feeling of progression,
rather than processing.
So we don't just show a
spinner and give no indication
of what is coming.
We need to show content coming
in slowly and coming out,
because it feels like a much
faster, progressive experience.
And so in summary,
you want to make
sure you reframe the problem.
You want to avoid blank screens.
You want to show bold
animations, making sure
that you're progressing,
rather than processing,
and keep navigation
clear and simple.
To find out more about
the research on speed,
you can download our ebook
here, called "Brain Food."
You can also check
out our PWA ebook
to learn more about
Progressive Web Apps.
And I also have this
course on SkillShare
so you can learn about
the process of UX
to help improve
your experiences.
And with that, I'd
like to say thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]